the US vice president and Democratic
presidential candidate kamla Harris has
added her voice to International
condemnation of the loss of civilian
life in Saturday's deadly Israeli air
strike on a School Compound in Gaza
around a thousand displaced Palestinians
had been Sheltering in the building at
the time of the Dawn strike the Israeli
military insists that it used Precision
missiles to Target what it claims was a
Hamas Command Center in the compound the
director of a local hospital said that
the facility had received 70 bodies and
the remains of at least 10 more people
Israel disputes those figures well this
is what Miss Harris said on the campaign
Trail take a
listen you know yet again there far too
many civilians who've been killed I mean
Israel has a right to go after the
terrorists that are Hamas but as I have
said many many times they also have um I
believe an important responsibility to
avoid civilian
casualties well the Biden Administration
has has also responded to news of the
attack a White House National Security
Council spokesperson says quote we are
deeply concerned about reports of
Civilian casualties we're in touch with
our Israeli counterparts and we are
asking for further details we know Hamas
has been using schools as locations to
gather and operate out of but we have
also said repeatedly and consistently
that Israel must take measures to
minimize civilian harm just hours before
the bombing the US state department
announced that it's releasing $3.5
billion do worth of weapons for Israel
part of a larger Aid package approved
earlier this year by Congress now this
report from Jenny Hill contains images
that you may find
distressing anguish
bewilderment Israel struck Before Dawn
shattering the sanctity of morning
prayer thousands of displaced civilians
were Sheltering here a place of Refuge
suddenly a scene of
Carnage there isn't any safe place this
woman cries no place is
safe where is the world he asks why does
it stay silent in the face of these
crimes how many times have gaza's
ravaged walls echoed to the sound of a
mother's grief um says three of her sons
were
killed I'm 80 she sobs I've never seen
anything like this before the way
they're bombing us is Like An
Earthquake but Israel claims this was a
legitimate Target that the school housed
a Hamas Command Center in a statement on
social media an Israeli Defense Force
spokesman said around 20 Hamas and
Islamic Jihad militants were operating
out of the compound Israel's repeatedly
struck school buildings in recent weeks
each time they insist they conceal Hamas
bases and each each time they insist
they strive to minimize civilian
casualties the strike comes at a time of
heightened tension in the Middle East
International governments are urging
Hamas and Israel to agree a ceasefire
and hostage return deal as soon as
possible and extensive diplomacy is
ongoing to try to stop the conflict in
Gaza from spiraling into an allout
Regional
war and as Palestinians mourn dead and
take shelter for another fearful night
it's hard to see hope in the ruins of
Gaza Jenny Hill BBC News Tel
Aviv well I've been speaking to Muhammad
Taha from BBC Arabic who explained the
amount of pressure Israel was coming
under lots of condemnation International
condemnation to the amount of Civilian
death in this strike
Algeria the Arab country is re Westing a
an urgent meeting for the UN Council to
discuss the matter and lots of calls to
Israel to uh constrain H Israel however
continued Shilling some parts of Rafa
khun and asked uh lots of parts in in
eastern kanun to evacuate we expecting
more strike in the coming hours this is
what's happening normally when they ask
people to evacuate Hamas denied uh
completely uh that there were Fighters
uh of them in in the compound or in the
prayer area Israel issued a statement H
named uh 20 people or so who are Israel
saying they are belong to Hamas and they
were in the compound isra Hamas said
these Fighters were killed previously in
in in in previous occasion and there are
clear instructions for their Fighters
not to mix with the civilians and even
if there were fighters in the in this
area they wouldn't be praying with the
people in the school you mentioned that
International condemnation from the
likes of Algeria also the White House
and uh vice president Kam Harris saying
too many civilians are being killed in
this conflict the possibility of a un
security council meeting is that likely
to exert any pressure of course uh
because now there is a mounting pressure
on Israel to return back to the
negotiating table uh on Thursday as
suggested by the United States if the
United if the UN Council would come and
and have a a statement that's calling
both parties to return back to the
negotiating table that would be uh a
positive uh and it it could also uh it
could also um uh Place pressure on
Israel to avoid such uh such U targeting
to uh shelter places because it it
became a systematic uh practice from the
Israeli Army that they would Target
schools hospitals and places that they
are taking uh shelter and even though
places that the Israel army would
suggest that they are safe places but
they return back and strike these places
and also reports today amid concerns of
a broad Regional War an exchange of fire
between Hezbollah and Israel what more
can you tell us yeah this is uh this is
an uh another front that is open now in
in this war we saw that hisbah struck
new
places
uh mahat alone and safad in Northern
Israel and uh wide areas in Al Jal in
Northern Israel also Israel rep
by by by by by shelling some parts in
southern Lebanon like Al and Ma Sal
there are fears as always that hasah
would would retaliate for the killing of
fad shuk their leader and also the
expected reply from Iran for the killing
of isma H well let's go straight to our
correspondent Jenny Hill who is in Tel
Aviv good to see you there Jenny um just
bring us up to date with the
latest well um the US arguably Israel's
greatest Ally and of course a major
supplier of weapons uh has expressed its
dismay at the strike as that
International condemnation mounts we
heard from vice president carela Harris
who said that yet again too many
civilians uh have been killed she added
that Israel has the right to go after
Hamas but it also Bears a special
responsib ability to avoid civilian
casualties the Israeli military
continues to insist that it used
Precision missiles to Target what it
claims was a Hamas Command Center within
the school compound um it's published a
list of the names of 19 people killed in
the strike which it says were either
Hamas or Islamic Jihad operatives um the
big question of course as you've been
asking all morning I imagine is where
does this leave any hope of a fire and
hostage return deal because of course
the strike came at a time of very
heightened tension in the Middle East
with International the International
Community urging both Hamas and Israel
to get to the negotiating table um and
agree upon a ceasefire and hostage
return deal Cara Harris herself
reiterated those demands um but listen
to what Hamas had to say in reaction to
the strike they described it as a
horrific crime and said that Israel in
effect had escalated the um conflict so
this morning in Gaza as people continue
to mourn their dead absorb the shock and
of course pray for those injured the
prospect of Peace seems very remote
indeed and Jenny how are those comments
from the likes of Harris the White House
we know that Algeria for example also
calling for a un security council
meeting how are they being received
there in Israel I imagine it depends on
who you speak to
well of course um I mean Israel says
it's going after Hamas um as a matter of
of self-defense um the Israeli leader
Benjamin Netanyahu has said you know his
aim is to completely dismantle the
organization um a lot of the Israeli
press um are publishing what the Israeli
military are saying that this was um in
effect a legitimate Target um we've seen
a string of similar attacks on schools
in Gaza by the Israeli military in
recent weeks and each time we see a very
familiar um pattern the Israeli military
will say well um there was a Hamas
Command Center or base within that
school schools of course are no longer
being used as Schools they're largely
being used um as shelters by the many
many displaced people of Gaza um but the
Israeli military say each time they go
out of their way to avoid civilian
casualties with for example the use of
precision missiles and the use of
intelligence that they've gathered um so
we are once again in a familiar routine
I think what perhaps makes this
particular strike Stand Out is the
number of dead of course that is why we
are seeing such International outrage
and and calls for an urgent return to
the negotiating table our correspondent
Jenny Hill in Tel Aviv Jenny thank you
very much